All right, awesome.
So let's move to the other big topic,
we're going from 0 to 60 now because
we're gonna be talking about
animations using CSS keyframes.
So to do this,
you're going to go to keyframe animations,
you're basically going to see
the same thing over here.
But now we're not going to be talking
about transitions between states,
but rather explicitly defining
animations just for different elements.
So to describe this, you know what,
let me get rid of [LAUGH] that
big animation I have over there.
Again, this is an anti pattern you
don't want to be changing the height of
the font size, or
the font size, it's not height.
Animations are different than
transitions because animations
explicitly defined what happens
between state A and state B?
So instead of just saying, go just
between those states, whatever properties
are changed, we're going to find a smooth
way to animate between one and two.
You could actually define exactly
what happens between those states.
So let's take the ball as an example.
Let's say that we want for
it to move around,
so this is just a very basic example.
What I'm going to do is
I'm going to remove all
of the transition stuff in there, and
we are going to add an animation.
So this is going to be animation,
let's call it, move-like-a-square,
very, very, random animation name.
And so
this is going to be our animation-name.
And just like a transition,
we are going to give it a duration.
So transition-duration, we're going to
say that this happens over four seconds.
Sorry, this should be animation-duration,
[COUGH].
Okay, so those are the two basic
things we need to get started.
Remember the default's timing
function is going to be ease or
ease announced, it's one of those two.
So now that we provided an animation name,
we have to define that animation.
And so the way you do that is by using CSS
keyframes and then providing that name.
So move-like-a-square.
Okay, so CSS keyframes you could think
of as a timeline at the very beginning,
and this timeline is
defined in percentages.
So the very beginning is going to be 0%,
the very end is going to be 100%.
So just like transitions, you could
think of this as, we're defining many
states along this timeline for
our elements to transition to.
So we could say that this
might be transform: none.
And that this 100% might be
transform: translate x().
And let's say that we
want to move this 20vw.
So 20, I guess you could think of
it as 20% of the viewport width,
so the width of the screen.
Okay, so now let's see when we do this,
you can see it's actually moving
smoothly from here to there.
And it doesn't really look like
an animation, it's warranted over here,
it looks like you could use a transition.
But remember, we're not changing states,
we're just defining the animation so
that it's gonna start
pretty much immediately.
Now, the cool thing about
keyframes is that you could define
points in between that timeline
like what we talked about.
So let's say that instead
of this being 100%,
this is going to be,
I have to do some math.
So 1, okay so
this is basically gonna be 33.3333%,
and actually let's make it a smooth 25.
So because this animation
is four seconds long,
this 25% mark is going to happen at 25% of
four seconds which is one second later.
So I'm going to move this over here.
And so now we're going to
see that after one second,
if I reload this,
it's going to move over there.
After four seconds,
it is going to snap back and
we're gonna talk about that in a minute.
But notice over here we have the exact
same definition for 25% and 100%.
So a shorthand for
that is you could separate by comma,
the other percentage
marks of the keyframes so
I could just put 25%, 100% over here.
And so that's going to be the same thing
as moving and then stopping there for
the duration of the animation and
then moving back.
So let's continue our square.
We have 25%,
we're moving to the right, 20vw and
then at 50%,
we are going to move translateY maybe,
I want it to be a square I did say square.
So 20vw, and then, let's see,
that's gonna be translateY,
but we do want to maintain the same
translateX, so we're gonna put that here.
And at 75%,
we're going to translate this back to 0,
and we're going to keep that Y the same,
and
then at 100%,
we are going to transform none.
So we want to get rid of all
the animation or sorry, all translation.
So this is the same as doing this,
having 0 translation for X and
0 translation for Y, but we're going to
change that to none just as a shorthand.
So now let's see how it looks, Okay,
it goes down to the left and back up.
Now something that you might
have noticed before, and
just to clarify what's happening,
let's make this overshoot a bit.
So now, it will go like a square and
then go really up, but
notice that it snaps back.
So the reason that it snaps back
is because of what's known as
animation fill mode.
So if we inspect this element, anyway,
so that doesn't tell the full story.
And neither of those computed values,
but what's happening is that by default,
we're not going to have a fill for
the animation.
And what that means is that,
at the 0% in 100%, so basically,
when the animation starts and ends,
we're basically saying wherever
the element is naturally supposed to be,
that's where it should be.
So naturally the element is at 0, 0, so
it's not translated anywhere, so when
this animation is finished we're going
to put that element back in its place.
Now if we don't want that,
if we want this value to be sticky,
then we are gonna have to add an animation
fill mode, so animation fill mode.
And so there's three possible values for
this, there's forwards,
backwards, and both.
So let's do forwards first just
to show you what that looks like.
It's gonna go back up here, and
notice that it's actually
sticking to the top this time.
So this is just as we expect.
Now let's add a delay to this so that
we could demonstrate what backwards is.
So animation-delay, 1 second,
so now let's start the transform
at translateX, -20vw.
So when we do this, it's going to
start in its natural place and
then sort of immediately go to its -20vw
place and then start the animation.
So that also might not look right,
depending on what you want to do.
So if we add,
Animation fill mode backwards,
then that will solve that problem
because now we're saying,
place this element at
the start of the animation.
Okay, so now we have the reverse
problem where it's not coming back,
or it's not sticking
to its final position.
And that's why we have
animation-fill-mode: both.
And so what this is going to do, is it's
going to make sure that it's sticky at
the beginning, and at the very end.
So it's not going to snap back
to its original position.
All right, so we talked about animation
name, duration, delay, fill mode.
So now I'm gonna change a couple of
things, we're gonna put transform none
over here, And transform none over here.
And let's say that I actually
want this to just keep animating.
So we could have an animation, it's called
iteration count, and you could give it
a number where you could say, hey,
I want this to happen five times.
And so, it's not gonna do it here, so
I had to do it here,
animation-iteration-counts: 5.
And let's actually make this
a little bit faster just so
you could see,
we'll remove the delay as well.
So it's gonna happen basically five times,
so that a second iteration,
third, here's a fourth, and here's
a fifth, and then it's going to stop.
So if you want it to keep going,
you could basically say that
this should be infinite.
And now this is gonna keep going, so
this is a really great way to make
loading spinners or things that
just have to continuously animate.
Like I talked about in the fundamentals,
it's important to keep in mind
that the animation-duration is for
a single iteration, it's not for
the entire animation.
Because the math wouldn't exactly work
out there if you have an infinite
animation iteration count, and only two
seconds then things are gonna be really,
really, really, really fast, so yeah.
And so there's another property too
which you might not use to often, but
it's really useful to know about, and that
is animation-duration, sorry, direction.
So animation-direction
specifies when you have 0% and
100%, do you want us to go from
0% to 100%, or 100% to 0%?
So if we do reverse,
notice how now it's gonna go backwards.
And we could also do
some really cool things.
We could say, alternate.
And so now at every other iteration,
it's actually going to do
the reverse of the animation.
And, of course,
you could even do alternate-reverse.
So there's some pretty interesting
things that you could do here.
Additionally, what you could do is,
you could specify the timing function for
each keyframe.
And so this is a bit more of an advanced
thing, but it's there if you need it.
We could say animation-timing-function,
let's just call this linear and
see what that looks like.
So now, notice that at the second leg over
here, it's going very, very straight,
it's a linear easing, it's not a nice
smooth easing like the rest of these.
So basically at the 25% mark,
it's going to take the linear
timing function and
apply that between 25% and 50%.
So the final thing I wanna talk about
here before we get to our exercise is,
again, notice how both our 0% and
100% animations have transform none.
We could group those together.
So we could say 0%, 100%, just like that.
And also, there are some keywords for
0% and 100%.
So 0%, you could call it from,
and 100%, you could call it to.
And so
now it's going to work exactly the same.
And actually,
I'd add one more thing to talk about,
you could have multiple
animations on an element.
So we could say,
Let's just call this red to green,
and so
we could have keyframes red to green, and
let's just say this is from
background red to background green.
And so what's interesting is
that these two animations
are going to happen pretty
much simultaneously.
And the second animation, or
the subsequent animations
are not going to assume the same
divisions as the first one.
So the red to green is not going
to happen at 25%, 50% etc,
it's going to be doing its own thing.
And so one thing to keep in mind is that
you cannot do this with the same property.
So if red to green for whatever reason
you added a transform over here,
it's actually going to conflict with
the original transform that you had.
So, it's just something to keep in mind.
All right, any questions about
keyframe animations in CSS?
>> So in that last example,
will that override and
cascade that style down with that
second declaration of red to green?
Will that transform take effect or
will they just kind of cancel out?
>> Let's find out?
>> Let's find out.
Okay, so we have both scale and,
so it overrides the first one.
Just because CSS is trying to
determine at any given point of time,
which style should we apply and
because this one is defined second,
it's going to take that one.